# Customer_Analysis_Project_R
## Analysis of Customers Who Buy Diet Products and/or Candy
 
  ### Introduction 
  #### For people who are regularly buying candy, it can be beneficial to market diet products towards them as healthy alternatives that have the same great taste. However, it is important to know the data behind the number of people who are interested in purchasing both of these products (candy and diet products), as well as those who purchase one or the other, or neither. Because of this, we wanted to see how many households belonged to each of these groups of data (purchasing both, purchasing one or the other, or purchasing neither) so that we were able to make a decision of whether to increase or decrease the marketing of diet products to the customers who regularly buy candy.
  
#### In order to do this, we looked at households and separated them into three groups: those who purchase both candy and diet products, those who purchase either candy or diet products, and those who purchase neither of the products through filtering tables and adding a variable telling which of these groups the household belongs to. We then plotted the number of households by each group to see how many belong to each one. To dive deeper into the analysis, we then grouped the number of transactions by different age ranges and income ranges to see which groups of people belonged to each group. 

#### While we know how important is for Regork to invest in marketing to groups of people who may not already be purchasing certain products regularly, we also think it is important to know when to increase or decrease the level of spending on this marketing when necessary. With the results of this analysis, Regork will know whether to continue, at all, marketing diet products to candy consumers and vice versa.

### Conclusion
#### We decided to help Regork decide whether to increase or decrease their marketing of diet products to customers who regularly buy candy, or vice versa. We know that it is important for them to try to expand their consumer groups for both types of products, while ensuring that they are not wasting their money and effort on ineffective advertising to groups who may not be interested in buying the products together or at all. We addressed this question by observing the product and household data for each transaction of those who buy both products, one product or the other, or neither. We created these three groups by combining and filtering the three data sets and mutating them to contain another variable that indicates which group each distinct household belonged to. We then plotted the different groups (both, either, or neither) and grouped them by the age ranges and income ranges to see which types of people are purchasing which products.  

#### The most interesting insight that our analysis provided was that there are only thirteen distinct households who are purchasing both candy and diet products. Of all the transactions, this is a very low number of households. Because of this result, we recommend that Regork decrease the funding of their marketing to consumers who are already regularly buying either diet products or candy. This will save them money and will also keep them from encouraging customers to change their buying habits, causing more work for Regork in the long run. The group of people who buy neither product was the largest, but households who buy either/or were close behind.  

#### The other interesting insights we found regarded the age and income ranges of consumers. We found that the most common age range for transactions was forty-five to fifty-four and this was consistent across all three groups. Because of this, we think that Regork should further target their marketing towards this age group in order to gain some consumers for either candy or diet products from the group of those who currently buy neither. We also found that the most common income range for transactions was fifty to seventy-four thousand dollar per year, and this was also consistent across all three groups. Because this range is right around the average median income in the United States, we think that Regork should consider sending coupons to houses who have shown interest in either of these products to encourage them to keep buying and gain more customers from the lower income ranges.  

#### Some limitations for our analysis would be the inability to explore further which products are more regularly purchased with either diet products or candy products, since the number of transactions of them bought together was so low. It would be very beneficial for Regork to know this so that they are able to create bundles, coupons, or areas where these products can be found together to encourage customers to buy them. We think this analysis could be improved by researching this further, as well researching the impact of coupons of discounts on diet and candy product sales, since many people refrain from buying them due to their price and the fact that they are non-necessity items.
